assignments.md, before:

# React+TS assignments

## #1 - Scaffold new project and clean up

### Goals:
- Create a new project and run it
- Clean up demo/boilerplate code

### Tasks:
- Run:
```bash
npm create vite@latest <project name> -- --template react-ts
```
- Open project folder in Visual Studio Code and in a new terminal window run:
```bash
npm install
npm run dev
```
- Verify that project runs on port 5173
- Clean up the App.tsx, so you're left with:
```ts
function App() {
    return(
        <>
            <h1>Hello world!</h1>
        </>
    );
}

export default App;
```
- Verify that project still runs without error message in the browser

## #2 - Basic component

### Goals:
- Create a reusable component
- Understand component trees/nesting

### Tasks:
- Create a new folder called `components` in the src folder
- Create a new tsx file called `Welcome.tsx` in the `components` folder
- Create a deafult exported function in `Welcome.tsx` that returns a greeting in a header tag
- Use the `Welcome` component in `App.tsx`
- Create another component called `Dashboard` in a file with an appropriate file name
- Use `Welcome` inside the `Dahsboard` component
- Replace the `Welcome` component in `App.tsx` with `Dashboard`

## #3 - Props

### Goals:
- Learn how data flows from parent to child component

### Tasks:
- Modify `Welcome` to accept a `name: string` prop
- Render multiple `Welcome` components with different names

```ts
//Hint
function SomeFunction({label}: string) {
    return(
        <p>I can show a {label} here</p>
    );
}
```

### Extra credit:
- Use an array of names and a for-loop to render the `Welcome` components

## #4 - State management

### Goals:
- Learn how components can track internal data

### Tasks:
- Create a `Counter.tsx` component that keeps track of a number using `useState`
- Create a button that increments the count
- Display the current count

In this task you're free to implement the `Counter` function as you wish,
try different approaches. Will you display the counter on the button, or in a separate `<p>` tag for instance?

The `Counter` component should be self-contained, which means the button and count should both exist in the component. This way, you can easily use the `<Counter />` component in `App.tsx`

### Extra credit:
Set up multiple instances of `Counter` on the web page

## #5 - Lift the state

### Goals:
- Passing a state to a component using props

### Tasks:
- Initialize a state in `App.tsx`
- Create two or more instances of `Counter` in `App.tsx`
- Rewrite `Counter` such that it accepts a state as a prop (including the function that sets/updates the state)
- Verify that the count updates and displays for all instances of the `Counter` on the web page

Hint:
```ts
import { type Dispatch, type SetStateAction } from "react";
```

## #6 - Importing other libraries

### Goals:
- Importing and using components from other libraries

### Tasks:
- Go to [Shadcn vite setup](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation/vite) and follow the instructions there
    - You have already done the initial scaffolding (Create project), so no need to repeat this
- Import the `button`, `card`, `select`, and `input` components from shadcn (using npx)
    - Import these one at a time, and notice what happens to the `components/ui` folder when you add new components from shadcn
- Try adding some of these components to your `App.tsx`

### Explore:
- Go to the `shadcn` page, and have a look at the list of ready-made components they offer, do you see any components you'd like to use in your projects?

## #7 - Styling with tailwind

### Goals:
- Style components using tailwindcss

### Tasks:
- Check out this [cheat sheet](https://nerdcave.com/tailwind-cheat-sheet) for tailwindcss
- Try using a css class from tailwindcss on any of your components

### Example
```html
<div className="border-2 border-red-500 w-[150px] h-[50px]">
    
</div>
```

Commit message:

Add task 8 with example code

assignments.md, after:

# React+TS assignments

## #1 - Scaffold new project and clean up

### Goals:
- Create a new project and run it
- Clean up demo/boilerplate code

### Tasks:
- Run:
```bash
npm create vite@latest <project name> -- --template react-ts
```
- Open project folder in Visual Studio Code and in a new terminal window run:
```bash
npm install
npm run dev
```
- Verify that project runs on port 5173
- Clean up the App.tsx, so you're left with:
```ts
function App() {
    return(
        <>
            <h1>Hello world!</h1>
        </>
    );
}

export default App;
```
- Verify that project still runs without error message in the browser

## #2 - Basic component

### Goals:
- Create a reusable component
- Understand component trees/nesting

### Tasks:
- Create a new folder called `components` in the src folder
- Create a new tsx file called `Welcome.tsx` in the `components` folder
- Create a deafult exported function in `Welcome.tsx` that returns a greeting in a header tag
- Use the `Welcome` component in `App.tsx`
- Create another component called `Dashboard` in a file with an appropriate file name
- Use `Welcome` inside the `Dahsboard` component
- Replace the `Welcome` component in `App.tsx` with `Dashboard`

## #3 - Props

### Goals:
- Learn how data flows from parent to child component

### Tasks:
- Modify `Welcome` to accept a `name: string` prop
- Render multiple `Welcome` components with different names

```ts
//Hint
function SomeFunction({label}: string) {
    return(
        <p>I can show a {label} here</p>
    );
}
```

### Extra credit:
- Use an array of names and a for-loop to render the `Welcome` components

## #4 - State management

### Goals:
- Learn how components can track internal data

### Tasks:
- Create a `Counter.tsx` component that keeps track of a number using `useState`
- Create a button that increments the count
- Display the current count

In this task you're free to implement the `Counter` function as you wish,
try different approaches. Will you display the counter on the button, or in a separate `<p>` tag for instance?

The `Counter` component should be self-contained, which means the button and count should both exist in the component. This way, you can easily use the `<Counter />` component in `App.tsx`

### Extra credit:
Set up multiple instances of `Counter` on the web page

## #5 - Lift the state

### Goals:
- Passing a state to a component using props

### Tasks:
- Initialize a state in `App.tsx`
- Create two or more instances of `Counter` in `App.tsx`
- Rewrite `Counter` such that it accepts a state as a prop (including the function that sets/updates the state)
- Verify that the count updates and displays for all instances of the `Counter` on the web page

Hint:
```ts
import { type Dispatch, type SetStateAction } from "react";
```

## #6 - Importing other libraries

### Goals:
- Importing and using components from other libraries

### Tasks:
- Go to [Shadcn vite setup](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation/vite) and follow the instructions there
    - You have already done the initial scaffolding (Create project), so no need to repeat this
- Import the `button`, `card`, `select`, and `input` components from shadcn (using npx)
    - Import these one at a time, and notice what happens to the `components/ui` folder when you add new components from shadcn
- Try adding some of these components to your `App.tsx`

### Explore:
- Go to the `shadcn` page, and have a look at the list of ready-made components they offer, do you see any components you'd like to use in your projects?

## #7 - Styling with tailwind

### Goals:
- Style components using tailwindcss

### Tasks:
- Check out this [cheat sheet](https://nerdcave.com/tailwind-cheat-sheet) for tailwindcss
- Try using a css class from tailwindcss on any of your components

### Example
```html
<div className="border-2 border-red-500 w-[150px] h-[50px]">
    
</div>
```

## #8 - Play around with APIs

### Goals:
- Get comfortable rewriting code
- Get used to seeing JSON data and selecting interesting data points

### Tasks:
- Get the API key from slack, and put into the `Weather` component in the correct constant.
    - Make "\<API KEY HERE\>" look like "bdfbd67678d"
- Copy the `Weather` component into your own project, in a folder that makes sense, the "components" folder is typically where you want it
- Have a look at the [Documentation](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis-docs/WeatherAPI.com/WeatherAPI/1.0.2#/APIs/forecast-weather) for the forecast endpoint, and check out the structure of the returned data
- Get the `Weather` component to work in your own application (remember that you can ask me on slack, even in the weekends, between 0800 - 2100)
- Play around with the component, add extra fields to the table, change the order of the fields, make the recharts chart show more lines, etc.

Feel free to ask either me or GPT for advice, the point of this task is to play around and get comfortable
